hi everyone and welcome to our AdWords
online classroom this undermine course
is called track your AdWords return on
investment using conversion tracking my
name is James and I'm an AdWords
education specialist based in Google's
European headquarters here in Dublin
please note that we will be expecting
you to complete a quiz at the end so do
make sure that you give the material
your undivided attention and rest
assured you will be able to pause the
course at your convenience so if you
miss something you can go back and
listen to it again thanks and we hope
you find this useful firstly we'll look
at understanding and starting to track
your AdWords return on investment will
then look at setting up conversion
tracking will then look at conversion
tracking reports and how to read them
and finally we'll go through some key
takeaways so now we'll look at
understanding conversions and return on
investment and what our conversions and
why are they important
how do you currently track sales and
leads from your AdWords advertising now
when you log into your account you can
see your lists of keywords you can also
see how many clicks you've had on these
keywords and what the click-through rate
for these keywords is however knowing
how many clicks and impressions you've
received from your AdWords advertising
does not tell you how many sales and or
leads and hence return on investment
you've received from it what are
conversions and goals the conversion can
be making a purchase downloading a file
or requesting additional information
each website should have one or more
goals in this presentation we will use
the term goal and conversion
interchangeably conversions will be
different depending on your business
model you may wish to track leads in
which case you will want users to fill
in a form on your site or you may want
users to complete a purchase on your
site and track sales through your
shopping cart this webinar looks at both
conversion tracking and Google Analytics
which allow you to track and measure
different types of go
the simple calculation for return on
investment is your profit before
advertising costs divided by the amount
you spent on Adwords when you track and
monitor your return on investment you
can make smarter decisions about your
online ads and ultimately make your
business more profitable conversion
tracking contains reports you can look
to examine return on investment and make
informed business decisions this course
will cover useful reports to analyze and
also practical statistics to consider
within your campaign view
conversion tracking measures conversions
from your AdWords advertising so you can
see exactly how effective your ads and
keywords are this helps you make better
business decisions to improve your
AdWords performance further conversion
tracking shows you the return on
investment from your AdWords advertising
another advantage is that only the
conversion pages on your website are
tagged it is easy to set up and can
provide you with useful return on
investment reporting
so how does conversion tracking work
well to begin using the tool you must
first put the AdWords conversion
tracking code in your site once the code
is correctly applied AdWords conversion
tracking will place a cookie on a user's
computer and mobile phone when he or she
clicks on one of your AdWords ads if the
user reaches one of your conversion
pages the cookie is connected to your
web page when a match is made Google
records a successful conversion for you
please note that the cookie that Google
ads to a user's computer and mobile
device when the user clicks on an ad
expires in approximately 30 days this
measure and the fact that Google uses
separate servers for conversion tracking
and search results protects the users
privacy
will now look at setting up conversion
tracking
you'll see the option to set up
conversion tracking from within the
opportunities tab of your account
when you click create an action you'll
be shown to a page to fill in some
details such as the name you want to
give this action and the value of the
action to you in the this action is used
for tracking section you'll be shown a
drop-down menu where you have the option
to categorize the action as tracking
signups leads use of a key page
purchases or sales or other in this case
we've used the example of a chocolate
hamper sale and put the value of this at
$25 an action is a named goal which can
be tracked using conversion tracking
that you hope users will complete on
your website for example an action might
be a user signing up for a newsletter
making a purchase or downloading a file
each action can be used to generate a
conversion tracking code snippet which
you can place on your website by using
different actions for the events that
you're interested in you can keep track
of how many users complete each of these
separate actions once you've defined
what your action is you can click Save
action and get code
you will then be provided with the
tracking code which you can copy into
the source code of the action page of
your website for example you can add the
code to what we refer to as the thank
you page which is essentially the page a
user sees after they have completed the
desired action this means that anyone
that reaches that page has definitely
completed an action please note that you
can also now find your new action in the
conversion tracking section of your
account
now that you've conversion tracking set
up you will be able to see new
conversion tracking statistics within
your account
will now take a look at conversion
tracking reports and how to read
conversion tracking statistics within
your AdWords account
now that you've enabled conversion
tracking you can see our basic account
statistics alongside your conversion
tracking statistics and to return on
investment statistics in the form of
conversion value over costs if you've
entered in your revenue or profit value
this statistic will be equal to your
return on investment for example value
over cost is equal to the total
conversion value over the total cost of
all art clicks the value per cost is
adjusted to reflect only the cost of our
clicks leading to conversions it's
advisable to look at statistics over
time and only make decisions when
significant data is built up to
ascertain trends it's not advisable to
make decisions based on a small quantity
of data
looking at click data shows chocolates
and bouquet of red roses to be the key
words with the highest traffic they also
both of a very good click to rate and
low cost per click
looking at the number of conversions or
sales that these keywords have generated
it scare the chocolates did not result
in any sales instead you can clearly see
that bouquet of red roses has the most
conversions or sales followed by the
keywords bouquet of garden lilies and
chocolate hampers however when you set
up conversion tracking you specify what
each sale on your website is worth to
you by placing values on each of your
keywords taking this into account you
can see that clicks on the keyword
chocolate hampers have driven the most
profit from sales in this case the
keyword chocolate hampers gives the best
return on investment while bouquet of
red roses drugs the highest sales volume
you can use such conversion tracking
data to increase your maximum cost per
click bids on your most valuable and
profitable keywords to get more clicks
and conversions on them this will
improve your return on investment
further if you use conversion tracking
you may become eligible to use
conversion optimizer this is a free ad
words feature which uses conversion
tracking data to get you more
conversions at a lower cost on average
campaigns adopting conversion optimizer
achieve a twenty one percent increase in
conversions while at the same time
decreasing their cost per acquisition by
fourteen percent it can help you both
increase profitability and return on
investment on help save you time so what
are you waiting for as you've seen from
this presentation tracking conversions
using conversion tracking allows you to
measure your return on investment from
AdWords knowing your advertising return
on investment allows you to ensure you
are making a profit on knowing your
AdWords return on investment provides
you with the information to optimize
your AdWords ads keywords location
targeting and other factors to improve
your marketing effectiveness this free
tool is available within the
opportunities tab of your AdWords
account